# What is Coding as a Service?## IntroductionOver the past couple of years, you have probably heard of the term *Artificial Intelligence* or AI. It is a term that has been around for a long time but just recently started getting some traction.  Over the past few years, there have been significant improvements in computing power, which has allowed Artificial Intelligence to become mainstream.Artificial Intelligence is the Computer Science theory that allows computers and programs to be able to perform tasks that normally would require human intelligences.  As we dive a little deeper in this topic, you might come across *Machine Learning*.  It is an application of Artificial Intelligence that allows computers to learn and improve from the experience without having to actually be programmed.Let's take a look and see how things are currently and how they actually affect the future.## Current StateIn order to give you a solid understanding of what coding, as a service is you must understand where we are today.  Typically we have programs that are made by software developers or engineers.  These programs are usually created to automate a task or make tasks easier.  Think things that typically speed up processing or automate a repetitive task.  This is and has been extremely beneficial.  The gained productivity from the automated applications and tasks allows us as humans and workers to spend more time on creating important things and more ground breaking ideas. This is where Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning come into the picture.## Enter A.I.Recently, with the gains in computing power that have come with time and breakthroughs, computers have became more and more powerful allowing for AI applications to arise in more common practice.  At this point today, there are applications that allow for users to detect objects in images and videos in real-time, translate speech to text, and even determine the emotions in the text sent by someone else.

For an example of Artificial Intelligence Applications in use today, you may have used an Amazon Alexa or Echo Device.  You talk to it, and it can understand your speech and then it can complete a task based off your speech.  Previously this was a task given to only humans (the ability to understand speech.). Now with advances, Alexa is capable of understanding everything you say if Alexa is *"trained"* to understand it.As you can probably already start to see, this is something that only humans were capable of doing as a while ago.## Coding as a Service and the FutureToday, we have programmers that write applications for many uses and make things such as websites for businesses.  As things progress and become more and more automated, that will increase programmer’s efficiency.  That will reduce the need for programmers.**Coding as a Service**, other wise known as Caas, will result in even fewer programmers needed.  It mixes the efficiencies we already have with Artificial Intelligence to do programming tasks for a user.  Using Natural Language Processing to understand exactly what the user or customer is saying and means, it will be able to make edits to websites and applications on the fly.  Not only will it be able to make edits, but combined with Machine Learning, the Coding as a service can now come up with recommendations from past data to make edits on its own.To make the situation a little worse, it is cheaper to own a computer than it is to pay a human especially when a computer will work around the clock for you and never get tired.  Imagine paying an extremely low price (one than you might already pay to get a website made) for getting your website built or maybe your small application created. ## Conclusion 
With every new technology comes its positives and negatives.  You just need to use the postives to your advantage!Overall, the numbers of software developers will decrease, meaning if you are a developer, you better start specializing into something and become an expert on it or find another trade.
 
On the bright side, it brings many positives as well.  Artificial Intelligence programs such as Coding as a Service could be spent doing plenty of the underlying work, and leave some of the heavier loading to human programmers.

With every new technology comes its positives and negatives.  You just need to use the postives to your advantage!If you enjoyed this post share it on [twitter][twit]! Tweet at me with any comments on this post on Twitter! I am looking forward to hearing from you!## Possible ResourcesCheck out my [GitHub][mainGit]View my personal [blog][pblog]Check out my YouTube [Channel][youtube][twit]: https://twitter.com/[mainGit]: https://github.com/acucciniello/[pblog]: http://www.acucciniello.com/[youtube]: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC8icMMql5SjCaXXMvILGIUA