# What is a Progressive Web App and Why should I care?## IntroductionYou probably opened up this post because you have heard plenty of buzz about this thing called *Progressive Web Apps* over the past couple of years and wanted to learn more about it. You might have even gotten the opportunity to even use some of these on your devices. Today we are going to explain what they are, some characteristics one and how Progressive Web Apps affect you as a developer!

So, what are these Progressive Web Apps we speak of?## Definition and CharacteristicsA *Progressive Web App* is a program that is stored on a server somewhere and given to the user on a web browser but is delivered with and interacted with a native application’s experience.  Stated more simply, it is a web application that feels like a native application to the user. It is built using web development technologies (browser, server, database etc.) but it created with the design and feel of being a native application for the end users.  It is a great attempt at creating an application that combines the benefits of a web-based application and a native application.There are some characteristics that make up what a Progressive Web App is, so let's describe that now.1. **Reliable**: The app should load instantly even under poor network conditions.2.	**Lighting Fast and App-Like**: The app should respond to user's actions with speed and with a smooth interaction.3. **Engaging and Responsive**: The app should give the feeling like it was made specifically for that device but it should be able to work across all platforms.4. **Protected and Secure**: Since it is still a web app, it is served over HTTPS to make sure the contents of the app are not messed with.5. **Installable**: The app can be saved to a device's home screen for offline usage.6.  **Linkable**: The app can be shared and accessed through a URL.7. **Up-to-date**: The application is always up to date using service workers.Now that we have listed out the characteristics of a web app let's dive into why you should be interested  about Progressive Web Apps as a developer who makes applications!## Why Should YOU care?As you probably already noticed by reading the characteristics, there are plenty of benefits to using Progressive Web Apps for the user.First off, it keeps the simplicity and speed of developing a web application.  It is built using the same old web tech you have been building your web application with, which tends to be easier and cheaper to get developed compared to a native application as that is device specific and involves learning more techonologies. Second, it has service workers that allow users to use the application with some offline functionality.  The service workers usually cache application resources in order to be used offline.  In a standard web app, you would not be able to access anything offline, but in a Progressive Web App it gives that added benefit to the user.
Third, it allows for fluidity between all of your devices.  Since the user interface and the interactions with it are the same on all devices it is easy for the user to use the Progressive Web App on multiple platforms. Fourth, learning about this topic of building a Progressive Web Application does not involve you learning a new technology if you have already been developing web applications for some time now.  All you need to do as a developer is to building the web application with the principles in mind when starting out.  ## Conclusion In the end, you can think of a Progressive Web App as an awesome combination of a web app and a native app by attempting to combine the benefits of developing either or and bringing it to the user in one application. You can build the application easier, it can be used at least partially offline, it allows for a nice fluidity between all of your devices, and it does not require much extra learning on your part.  I would highly suggest you take this into consideration when building your next application!If you wanted to take a look at some of the Progressive Web Apps that are out today, check out this [link][githubPWA].  It gives you a link to some of the better Progressive Web Applications to date.If you enjoyed this post share it on [twitter][twit]! Leave a comment down low and let me know your thoughts on Progressive Web Apps!## Possible ResourcesCheck out my [GitHub][mainGit]View my personal [blog][pblog]Check out my YouTube [Channel][youtube]Google's [Checklist][googleChecklist] on What Progressive Web Apps should have[twit]: https://twitter.com/[mainGit]: https://github.com/acucciniello/
[pblog]: http://www.acucciniello.com/
[youtube]: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC8icMMql5SjCaXXMvILGIUA
[googleChecklist]: https://developers.google.com/web/progressive-web-apps/checklist[githubPWA]: https://github.com/hemanth/awesome-pwa